---
title: Introduction
description: Welcome to Necto documentation!
meta: 
    title: Introduction
    ogTitle: Introduction
    description: Introduction
    ogDescription: Introduction
    ogImage: null
    twitterCard: null
analytics:
  feedback: true
  helpfulness: true
---

## What is Necto? 

Necto is an innovative, open-source utility layer designed with a unified approach to simplify common programming tasks and system-level operations across all infrastructure. 

From complex system level API calls (ex. [Windows DLL calls](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-client/setup-upgrade-and-drivers/dynamic-link-library#the-dll-entry-point)) to simple single-line programs, Necto offers a cohesive ecosystem that unifies utilities for different programming languages, frameworks, and tools into one solution.

## The dependency problem

In modern software development, projects frequently depend on numerous third-party libraries to implement various functionalities. While these dependencies can are convenient, they introduce significant challenges. Managing multiple libraries with conflicting versions can lead to compatibility issues, often resulting in software that takes longer to configure than to actually build. Additionally, poorly optimized or bloated libraries can cause performance bottlenecks, increasing load times and resource consumption. The overhead of integrating, updating, and maintaining these dependencies contributes to the overall complexity of the project, making it harder to ensure stability and performance.

Furthermore, vulnerabilities or bugs in third-party code can pose serious security risks, potentially compromising entire systems or rendering applications inoperable. The use of different libraries for similar functionalities across various programming languages can lead to fragmented codebases, complicating maintenance and increasing the learning curve for new team members.

## Necto, solution for the modern era

The last dependency you'll ever need!
(Disclaimer: We're joking, but only a little.)

**Necto solves your team's dependency and utility problems.** It offers a comprehensive, unified solution packed with features that no longer need to implemented by your team. Necto replaces multiple third-party libraries with a single, well-maintained utility layer, along with improved language-specific implementations. 

Dependency conflicts and version management issues are now a thing of the past. By implementing core functionalities uniformly across different programming languages, Necto eliminates the need for language-specific libraries. Each package in Necto is optimized for its specific use case and language, ensuring better performance compared to generic, one-size-fits-all libraries.

With fewer external dependencies, applications built with Necto have a smaller attack surface, enhancing overall system security. Necto is designed to work seamlessly with all your existing development tools and frameworks, allowing for easy adoption.
